Well, people today are very, very concerned about their appearance.
In fact, it's estimated that worldwide, the cosmetic industry generates some four hundred
billion dollars every year, can you imagine.
But what is it that makes a person truly beautiful in the eyes of Jehovah?
Well in our text this morning from 1 Peter 3 and 5, you notice it says, this is how the
holy women of the past, who hoped in God, used to adorn themselves.
Well in what way?
What was Peter speaking of?
Well if you go back to verse 3, you notice what he says there in 1 Peter chapter 3.
Do not let your adornment be external, the braiding of the hair and the wearing of gold ornaments
of fine clothing, but let it be the secret person of the heart.
In the incorruptible adornment of the quiet and mild spirit, which is of great value in
the eyes of God, well what's the point?
Jehovah is focused not on physical beauty or on the adornment, the external adornment,
but rather what's inside a person.
When Samuel went to anoint one of the sons of Jesse to be king, you remember he was
very, very impressed with Alayab.
But what did Jehovah say about Samuel's attitude toward this son of Jesse?
Let's open our Bibles.
Let's read together 1 Samuel chapter 16 and verse 7.
It says there, but Jehovah said to Samuel, do not pay attention to his appearance and
how tall he is, for I have rejected him, for the way man sees is not the way God sees,
because mere man sees what appears to the eyes, but Jehovah sees into the heart.
Well, what is it then that makes a person beautiful to Jehovah?
Well, the key is what's inside.
It's what Peter calls the secret person of the heart.
Well, that expression, similar ones like it, appear all through the scriptures.
Here's a few examples.
Psalm 516 says, look, you find pleasure in the inner person.
Teach my innermost self true wisdom.
About 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 16, it says, therefore, we do not give up.
But even if the man we are outside is wasting away, certainly the man we are inside is being renewed from day to day.
And how about Romans 7, 22, where Paul said, I really delight in the law of God according to the man I am within.
Well, all of these expressions really refer to the same thing, that inner person, that secret person of the heart.
Well, Jehovah is looking into the hearts of people and he's seeing that secret person, that inner man.
In fact, 2 Chronicles chapter 16 verse 9 says, that the eyes of Jehovah are roving about through all the earth to show his strength in behalf of those whose heart is complete toward him.
What does it mean?
It means that Jehovah is looking at the secret person of the heart of every person on this planet.
He sees what's really inside.
Now, can you imagine, can you even try to imagine what Jehovah sees when he looks at all those billions of hearts?
It must be quite scary.
Because, notice what Jesus said, do you remember?
Matthew chapter 15 verses 19 and 20, he said, for example, out of the heart come wicked reasonings, murders, adulteries, sexual immorality, thefts, false testimonies, blasphemies.
When I win Jehovah, looks through all those billions of hearts and he comes across one that wants to serve him, that's filled with love for him, that's willing to adjust and adapt in order to please him.
Can you imagine how much joy Jehovah experiences?
Well, it really emphasizes to us then the need for us to focus not on our external appearance, but on developing that inner person.
As the song says, it's the person not the place, it's the heart and not the face.
Well, that's encouraging to many of us, isn't it?
But we need to keep putting, we need to keep guarding against putting all of our emphasis on outward appearance.
Now, one area, brothers, I'd like to talk to you about this morning, where people today have become focused on external appearance, is the whole matter of taking photographs.
Now, all of us no doubt enjoy taking a photo with a group of our close friends or even with our relatives.
It's a nice way to mark a special occasion, isn't it? I don't know about you, but I have many photo albums of good memories with friends and family that I enjoy looking at.
But the advent of the smartphone means that almost everyone today has a camera with them at all times at every occasion.
Well, what does that mean?
Well, you may remember that Brother Heard, in a talk at Gilead a few years ago, mentioned the challenge that governing body members and their wives and other responsible brothers and their wives have, with so many brothers and sisters wanting photos.
Now, do you remember what Brother Heard said? He said it was suffering for the sake of righteousness.
Well, perhaps we all laughed when Brother Heard said that, but Brother Heard was trying to help us. He was trying to help us see a point.
But I wonder, brothers and sisters, I wonder if we all got the point.
I remember that same day when Brother Heard gave the talk at the Gilead graduation.
Several people came up to me after they said, oh, wasn't that funny what Brother Heard said about the photographs?
Could we get a picture of you?
Well, makes us wonder. Did we really get the point?
Well, then we had a reminder, didn't we?
In the January 2016 study edition, remember this photo appeared?
Now, next to that photo, there was a box. Here's what it said.
While we appreciate having an opportunity to meet and talk with visiting brothers and their wives, we would show a lack of respect if we treated such ones as celebrities.
For example, would it show good manners to take candid photos of such ones without permission while they are eating and engaging in other activities?
Would we ask them to autograph our books and Bibles?
Would we push in front of others and aggressively demand that our photo be taken with them?
Surely, none of these actions display true Christian love.
Rather, they could show that we have missed the purpose of the visit and the hard work that such faithful ones do in our behalf.
What effect could such behavior have on those attending one of our assemblies for the first time?
Well, that's quite a sobering paragraph, isn't it?
When our brothers please don't miss the point.
The governing body, brothers, and their wives as well as other responsible brothers, we love going out being with the brothers.
We love having association.
But can you imagine going into a room of, say, 10,000 people where everyone knows you by name?
And where perhaps even five or 10% of the people would like to have a photograph with you?
Can you imagine how overwhelming that could be for a brother and particularly even for his wife?
Well, what can we do?
We have an opportunity to imitate Jehovah and value people not by what appears to the eyes, but for their beautiful spiritual qualities.
And when we value them that way, what will we do?
Well, we'll be moved to put away our camera and take the opportunity to focus on having an interchange of encouragement with these dear brothers and their wives.
What a marvelous opportunity we have to be able to imitate our God Jehovah and show appreciation for the secret person of the heart.